<ICLE-CZ-PURK-0002.1>

Apachean tribes lived in places where today's Arizona and New Mexico is located. They came there from the north and together with Hopi and Pueblo Indians they represented the cultural border between Middle and Northen America.
The name "Apache" comes from the language of their neighbour tribe Zuåi. It means "enemy". Apaches themselves called Dine, People.
They lived in a rather primitive way. Their country was half-desert, they had nearly no wear. The social organization was very plain- families and clans. They recognized their chieves only because of their abilities. Everybody could expres his opinion and everybody respected other's conviction. We can not find the word "must" in their language.
Apachean lived in a huts made of branches and grass. In places where they found enough buffaloes they used to live in a skin tents.
They maintained by hunting, gathering wild plants, they learned to grow up corn soon. There lived bears in their country, there was a lot of fish in the rivers. But Apaches never hunted them.These animals were tabu.
They honoured natural forces and powers - the sun, the stars, the clouds, the mountains, the plants, the animals. They were good trackers, peerless connoisseurs of the countryside.
Most of people today associates the name Apache with the romantic hero of Charles Mayøs books - Vinnetou. But Vinnetou has never lived, he is completely unreal person. Charles May just wanted to show his imagination of an ideal Indian, brave and noble. Books of Charles May were often discussed. He was blamed of shams and other bad things. At the other hand, he did a lot for notion, understanding and popularization of Indians. At least, he was one of the first in his time who ventured to denounce the rasism so usuall in nineteen century.
Surprisingly, Vinnetou, never existing person, is today the most famous Apachean chief. But there existed other, real Apachean chieves. Juan Jose, Magnas Coloradas, Eskimenzin, Victoria, Geronimo.They are known especially thanks to wars with white people.
The first of them, Juan Jose, was an Apachean chief in the year 1855. There was a rising conflict between Indians and Mexicans who explored Indian land. Spanish and Mexican soldiers paid to one English 'friend' of Indians - James Johnson. He brought some presents to Apaches and when the tribe gathered Spanish soldiers shot there from the cannon hidden in the wood.Juan Jose died there.
After this massacre young and gifted man Magnas Coloradas became Apachean chief. Enraged Indians began to avenge. They destroyed the village Santa Rita del Cobre.
Magnas Coloradas was an exceptional man, he had not only ability for fight an war, but he was a good diplomat too. He had three daughters and he gave them to be married to chieves of other tribes - he obtained more allies. Magnas Coloradas was fighting more then twenty years. At the end of his life he recognized that there is no chance to win. He went to some soldiers camp to surrender and he was killed.
The similar thing happened to Anivaipan Indians ( the subtribe of Apachean Indians) They came with their chief Eskimenzin to Camp Grant to give up. Then they lived near the camp for several years in small agreecultural village, but if there was some stealing or murder in the camp, soldiers automatically put the blame on Indians. Then the village was destroyed, people killed. Chief Eskimenzin was prisoned for three years and then he died.
The rest of Apache Indians lived in reservations. They tried to escape for several times. It was under leading of the chief Victorio in the year 1877. But they were pushed back to the reservation.
The last group of Apaches made off reservation San Carlos in September 1881. They were lead by chieves Juan, Geronimo and Nachez. Soldiers started to pursue them immediately, but they did not succeeded. Apaches escaped to Sierra Madre mountains, wild, concealed, exquisite countryside. It was inpossible to find them there. But soldiers made Indians to give up by trick and returned them back to the reservation.
The last escape was the best proof of Indian courage and persistence. It was in the year 1884. There were only fourty two man and about one hundred woman and children in this group. Three thousand american soldiers, five hundred Indian scouts and several groups of Mexican soldiers followed them more then one year. Apaches lost only nine people during this year, American and Mexican soldiers more than six hundred.
But finally these Indians were chased down. They gave up 25.3. 1886. They were deported to Florida, to prisons in Fort Ticken and Fort Marion. After twenty eight years of prisoning several of them returned back to their country.
The last and the most famous Apachean chief Geronimo died in prison in 1909.
