<ICLE-FR-UCL-0045.2>

Nostromo is a very difficult novel.  Its theme, time distortions, structure and style seem to put the reader on a wrong track all through the novel.  We ask ourselves lots of questions right from the start till the end ...  Despite all that, or should I say thanks to it, when we have a closer look at this masterpiece we can see that the first chapter (made up of 4 pages only) foreshadows the whole novel.  I will deal with the different references (to the story) as I meet them.
The very first sentence already shows Conrad's bookish language.  He uses many adverbs and adjectives.  This makes the sentences more heavy but the conveyed ideas are more precise.  As will be seen later in the chapter, Conrad proposes many metafors (<*>).
Though the title of the novel is Nostromo, the author devotes here a whole chapter to Sulaco, which is presented as a town without any commercial importance.  Oxhides is the only production, and comes from nature.  The first symbol of industrialism then appears <*>.  They were big ships coming from capitalized countries.
They are described as clumsy, as they can not enter Sulaco's harbour because of their bigness.  The gulf is very calm.  It is nearly impossible to sail in it because of the absence of wind.  We shall later see the importance of the gulf.
We get a conclusion to the introduction of the town.  Sulaco is described as a "inviolable sanctuary".  Some words also refer to such a holy place (temple, solemn, hush, ...).  Sulaco, thus described cannot be invaded by capitalism and industrialism.  According to this 1st part, this is seen as impossible.
Conrad is now depicting the area, the environment.  He introduces the name of the republic : Costaguana. It is not a real name because Conrad  does not want to situate his novel in a real country.  The evolution, the degradation rather, can happen everywhere.  If he had chosen a specific country, we might have thought that the circumstances were limited to that particular country which is not at all the case.  However, we will be given a geographical information.  The story takes place near the cordillera (mountain range in South-America).
The author creates an atmosphere of darkness and mist on the Gulf. I shall come back on that point later. The first time Conrad speaks about the mine, he does it with an allusion, indirectly.  He uses the term "forbidden treasures"; later also (forbidden wealth).  He ends this paragraphe with the story of 2 gringos who wanted gold, went for it and never came back.  They stand for materialist people and refer to the degradations of Charles Gould and Nostromo.
Conrad, having told those gringos had turned into ghosts, shows that he is against industrialism and warns us also about death.  Death at the beginning (we are on page 2 only) and at the end.  The gringos died or the silver and so will Nostromo (even if it is a mistake).  The gringos, dead and alive, are <*>.   That is a clear parallel with Decoud's suicide.  He is in possession of the silver but is completely empty inside.
Each time the gulf is talked about, it is associated with darkness and shadow.  Before stressing that characteristic, Conrad once again shows that Sulaco is isolated, protected from storms and industrialism.  He goes back to the description  of the Golfo Placido.  To achieve his aim, he shows us the impact of the moments of the day on it (dawn, midday sun, night).  The night is fully developed.  Some phrases are very clearly symbolic as the <*>, <*>, ...  All these items refer to the crossing of the gulf by the lighter.  I think Conrad reaches the climax of his description with the phrase : <*>.  All through the chapter, Conrad opposes the adjectives visible and invisible.  He goes even further here, saying that God himself loses his power there at night.
In the last two paragraphes, we find a description of the Isabels. Conrad mentions a spring of fresh water and the beauty of nature.  All this will be destroyed by the mine, by industrialism.  Industrialism  is blind and does not care for nature ...  The Great Isabel is full of purity.  This is highly symbolic considering the events that will take place there.  The silver will be taken to it (silver as a symbol of corruption).  Decoud will commit suicide, a lighthouse will be built and Nostromo himself will be shot dead.  The tragedy will take place on this Island full of nature, full of purity.
As opposed to all this darkness and mist, Conrad kept a place for the sun.  He speaks about the <*>.  The presence of light and sun is made clear by the second line of the chapter; the author writes : <*>.  With the very last line of this first chapter, Conrad hammers once more on the nail : Sulaco is an isolated town and will be protected.  This ironical conclusion of the first chapter can only be understood when you have read the book.
