<ICLE-GE-AUG-0001.1>

The person, whom I admire most is my girl-friend. One reason why I admire her is her beauty. Admittedly she can't compare in beauty with Kim Basinger, Julia Robert or Janet Jackson, but as far as I am concerned, I reckon that she's one of the prettiest girls in my hometown. Christine is 20 years of age and the first impression you get when you look at her is really brilliant. Her eyes are as brown as hazelnuts or with the words of American pop-singer Kim Carnes, you can describe them as "Bette Davis Eyes". Her lips are purely red, or to quote a song by UB40 as colourful as "red red wine". Her nose is of an ideal size and shape and her skin is absolutely spotless, so there's no need for her to use Clerasil or other wash-lotions. She has glistening dark brown hair which normally reaches her shoulders and usually she wears a hair slide or a pony-tail. She is always well dressed, mostly in black trousers and only very seldom in skirts, because she hates wearing skirts and tights, although she's got plenty of them in her wardrobe.
Another reason she is admirable is that she's very active in doing sports and that nearly every type of sport is managed by her in a very simple way. She's very interested in cycling, swimming and skiing. Admittedly she can't ski like Alberto Tomba, Markus Wasmeier or Katja Seizinger but well enough to cope with every type of ski slope. Whenever we go skiing together, I really feel ashamed when I compare my style of skiing with hers. In the summer time it's more than likely to meet her at the local "Baggersee" which is only a stone's throw away from her home. When we meet there, we doze and laze and sleep and slumber and tan and stretch out. But as soon as we jump into the water I get totally confused, because her style of swimming is nearly perfect.
She's also very intelligent and because of that she hasn't failed in one of her university-exams so far. She passed translation, grammar, linguistics, literature and all her other courses at first attempt, where some others had to take a second bite at the cherry.
Last of all she's very friendly and there's nearly nobody in my circle of friends, who doesn't like Christine.
To sum it all up: I can't imagine a situation which she can't cope with and therefore it's more than likely to admire her - not only because of her beauty, but furthermore because of her cleverness in lifestyle. To let the cat out of the bag, we plan to get engaged this year in summer and I can well imagine being her husband one day.
