<ICLE-IT-TOR-0031.2>

	In our society there is a growing concern about the problem of violent crime. In fact, particular attention is given to the use of guns of guns which provokes the a high rate of death. The question is whether it is right to make gun ownership illegal in order to reduce violence. Many people maintain this the only way to eliminate most violent crime. They are right. The main arguments in supporting of this view are, first of all by making the ownership of guns illegal, the law respects the basic aim of Justice. Moreover it should be a sort of deterrent towards people who want adopt violence to achieve a goal. This act should be a starting point to analise the deep roots of violence.
	First of all, the law should provide people with the tools needed to behave positively in our society. People should be taught to make informed choices to understand what is right and what is wrong. Moreover, the law must protect honest people against those who use violence in order to attain something. For this reason, make illegal the ownership of guns should increase the sense of authority on the part of the state which cannot approve any form of violence or constraint towards anybody and makes clear its aim of defending honest people.
	Furthermore, make gun ownership illegal is a sort of deterrent towards who wants behave dishonestly. It is well understood that the human animal is more violent than other species. A great number of people use guns for dishonest reasons and with the purpose to injure others. This is enough to adopt strict punishment and abolish guns. Not only would this measure reassure honest people but it would also increase the sense of fear in the culprit. A good example for keeping guns out of people's hands is showed by Japan, where it is rare to get a licence and the rate of death by shooting is very low.
	Moreover, to keep guns out of people's hands should be a starting point to analise the deep roots of violent behaviour in our society. In fact a great deal is due to a complete decline in values like Justice, honesty and love. Some experts explain that a great number of people live in a vicious circle of anxiety and aggression, then they feel influenced by violence on the screen or they feel that TV affects their thinking and obliges them to adopt evil behaviour. It is also too naive to think that once the availability of guns has been removed the problem of violence  simply vanishes, but in this caotic situation it is feasible to protect people who live in a honest way and remove any causes that could worsen a problem which is already particularly serious.
	In conclusion, keeps guns out of people's hands could be both a positive solution and a starting point to reduce violent crime in our society. This measure should be followed by other acts such as the study of real causes of violence in our society. In order to analise the problem in its complexity and allow people to live in a world where Justice and peace are not only mere words. All this entails the cooperation of all of us in order to build a better society.
