<ICLE-PO-POZ-0032.5>

Silence is something more than just a pause. It is the enchanted place where space is cleared, time is stopped and the horizon expands itself. In silence, it is often said, people can hear themselves think. It is much truer to say, however, that in silence people can hear themselves not think and so they sink below their selves into a place far deeper than thought allows. In silence it is possible to listen to something behind the clamor of this world. The world's noises are constantly attacking human consciousness and senses. Most of the inhabitants of mega cities do not even realize that they live in constant noise. Meanwhile, silence is where people can truly distance themselves from reality and either reach the state of ease or find some long-searched-for conclusions. Unfortunately, silence is so much unappreciated today, that few people know its real value and its importance in human life in terms of spirituality, stimulation and relaxation.
Silence is the tribute paid to holiness. It is no coincidence that places of worship are places of silence. Thus, if idleness is the devil's playground, silence may be the angel's. It is an ecumenical state, beyond the doctrines and divisions created by the mind. If everyone has a spiritual story to tell of his life, everyone also has a spiritual silence to preserve. A MOMENT OF SILENCE is the highest honor that people can pay to someone. It is the point at which the mind stops, words run out and feelings rush in. A VOW OF SILENCE is for holy men the highest devotional act. People hold their breath, hold their words, suspend their chattering selves and let themselves fall silent while falling into the highest place of all.
It often seems that the world is getting noisier these days. In Japan, which may be a model of the future, cars and buses have voices, doors and elevators speak. A walkman has become an indispensable piece of equipment of the modern generation, ensuring that people need never be without the clamor of this world. Meanwhile, more and more people have difficulties with concentration and hearing. A threatening number of youngsters cannot stand a short period of absolute silence without getting nervous or hyperactive. White noise becomes the aural equivalent of the clash of images, the non-stop blast of fragments that increasingly agitates the human mind. In silence, greatest ideas were produced and solutions to many serious problems found. Most wonderful pieces of literature were created in peaceful environments. Nowadays, however, people seem not to notice the low hum of their computers at work or even the never-ending noise of passing cars or planes. They rarely use the wonderful power of stimulation that silence brings.
There is of course, a place for noise, as there is for daily lives. There is a place for roaring, for the shouting exultation of a soccer match, for hymns and spoken prayers, for orchestras and cries of pleasures. Silence, like all the best things is best appreciated in its absence. If noise is the signature tune of the world, silence is the music of the other world. Certainly, the greatest charm of noise is when it ceases. In silence, it seems as if all windows of the world are thrown open and everything is as clear as on a morning after rain. Most beautiful commitments are expressed in silence, people usually sleep in silence and in silence they admire the wonders of nature. Thus, even though they often do not realize it, humans are accompanied by silence in the most wonderful and peaceful moments of their lives.
It is a well-known fact, that words are treacherous and that they are often used to cover embarrassment, or emptiness, or fear of the larger space that silence brings. Words commit people to positions they do not really hold. They are what people use for lies, false promises and gossip. People talk with strangers but with intimates they can be silent. They MAKE CONVERSATION when they are at a loss but UNMAKE it when they are alone or with those so close that they can afford to be alone with them. Silence then, could be said to be the ultimate province of trust. It is the place where people can trust themselves to be alone and where they can trust others to understand the things they do not say. Silence in human life, is this indispensable sacred space that may either stimulate action or allow to rest.
