It is now a very wide spread opinion, that in the modern world there is no place for dreaming and imagination. Those who share this point of view usually say that at present we are so very much under the domination of science, industry, technology, ever-increasing tempo of our lives and so on, that neither dreaming nor imagination can possibly survive. Their usual argument is very simple - they suggest to their opponents to look at some samples of the modern art and to compare them to the masterpieces of the "Old Masters" of painting, music, literature.
As everything which is simple, the argument sounds very convincing. Of course, it is evident, that no modern writer, painter or musician can be compare to such names as Bach, Pushkin< Byron, Mozart, Rembrandt, Raffael et cetera. Modern pictures, in the majority of cases, seem to be merely repetitions or combinations of the images and methods of painting, invented very long before. The same is also true to modern verses, novels and songs.
But, I think, those, who put forward this argument, play - if I may put it like this - not fair game with their opponents, because such an approach presupposes the firm conviction, that dreaming and imagination can deal only with Arts, moreover, only with this "well-established set" of Arts, which includes music, painting, architecture, sculpture and literature. That is, a person, who follows the above-mentioned point of view tries to make his opponent take for granted the statement, the evidence of which is, to say the least, doubtful.
But actually, these are not only music, painting, writing which are the spheres to which one's dreaming and imagination can be applied. First of all, there are quite a few other "arts". Probably, these are not as well-established as those mentioned above, but they are also "arts", and besides, they flourish nowdays. Let us take cinema, for example. Originally, in the beginning of the century, it was only an entertainment for common people. But today we may already call it "art". Now it has a hundred years of its history, and we all know, that cinema is really able to create masterpieces. Our contemporaries, film-directors of this "dominated by science, technology and industrialization" century create at present films like "The Good, The Bad, The Ugly", "8 ½", "Once Upon a Time in America", "Shining" et cetera, which, perhaps, in the next century will be regarded by our descendants just like w regard Raffael's pictures or Shakespeare's sonnets now.
By the way, I can hardly observe any connection between the "domination of science, technology and industrialization" over our world and the decline of arts. There may be some other reasons for it, but niether science nor technology themselves. Moreover, scientific and technological progress may very often create new means and new ways to apply one's imagination and "materialize"one's dream. For example, the newest computer technology, I think, has already created a whole range of ways to apply one's imagination - the computer design, animation and plenty of other things - and still has a great capasity for developement.
And these are, actually, not necessarily arts, to which one may apply his or her own imagination. It may be applied as well even to everyday life - at work, at home cleaning and cooking - everywhere.
We may conclude therefore, that the situation with imagination and dreaming is not as lamentable as those adherents of the opinion which is the title of the present essay try to convince us it is. At last, there is nothing new in the world, that can be done without imagination... And this is true even to those "despots" - science, technology and industrialization.
