<ICLE-SP-UCM-0011.7>

Most of the people who is in prison can be rehabilitated and so they can improve their quality of life. There are lots of methods and a profesional equipment who is prepare to help them. But this doesn't mean that a person who has commited a crime isn't found guilty because he is insane, for example. In my opinion, a person who is in prison owing to a major offence, should be in prison the years he deserves. If we used rehabilitation with the people who are in prison, all of them would declare insane and none would be convicted. In this way, a person who has raped a girl, could be in his house after a rehabilitation in which the therapist is never sure this prisoner isn't going to rape any more.
However, in many cases we can use rehabilitation with people that has commited a minor offence can go out of prison only when the therapist is sure that the prisoner isn't dangerous for the rest of the population. An example of this are drug addits. We all know that there are lot of people in prison because of drugs. Maybe they were only children or teenagers when they were offered a kind of drug that they didn't refuse because their friends didn't persuade him. At that moment they could feel that they need that substance more and more because it made them feel better.
Many of the drug addits have legal problems because they steal money for buying the drug that is in many countries, like Spain, illegal. They have social problems too because people are afraid of them and the drug addits isolate temselves. Another difficulty is that, because of drugs, they lose their work and begin a life as homeless. All of this means that rehabilitation musn't only set out for distinguishing the drug habit but inserting this kind of people in society and in a job.
This example shows us that with rehabilitation many people would go out of prison and make a normal life besides it would improve our society.
None the less, in a country like Spain, is very difficult rehabilitation because it supposes a lot of money to spend on. I don`t think that the prison system could change to introduce rehabilitation that is, in my point of view, an Utopian word, by now.
